Arches 6.1.0 release notes
------------------------


### Major enhancements

### Additional highlights

### Breaking changes

### Dependency changes:
```
Python:
    Upgraded:
        elasticsearch 7.0.0 -> 7.11.0

    Added:
        none

Javascript:
    Upgraded:
        none

    Added:
        none
```


### Upgrading Arches
1. You must be upgraded to at least version 6.0 before proceeding.

2. Be sure to backup your database before proceeding

3. Upgrade to Arches 6.1.0

        pip install --upgrade arches

4. Within your project with your Python 3 virtual environment activated:

        python manage.py migrate
        python manage.py es reindex_database

5. **Important:** If you are maintaining an Arches package, be sure to export your graphs and resource instance data before reimporting or reloading your package. 


### Upgrading an Arches project

1. Update your CACHES setting. In your project's settings.py file **add** the following CACHE to your CACHES setting. Be sure to do this in your settings_local.py file if that is where you have your CACHES setting:
    
    ``` 
    "user_permission": {
        "BACKEND": "django.core.cache.backends.db.DatabaseCache",
        "LOCATION": "user_permission_cache",
    },
    ```
    You can, of course, modify the BACKEND to use the caching backend of your choice.

2. If you did not change the "user_permission" cache BACKEND, run the following:
   ```
   python manage.py createcachetable
   ```

3. In 6.1 the order of the AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS setting has changed slightly with the ['guardian.backends.ObjectPermissionBackend' moved to the end]https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/e412a4c44347df0cfee1c84de8bad2d88b6a45c3/arches/settings.py#L339. In the unlikely case that you have overridden this setting in your project's settings.py or settings_local.py file, then you'll need to update this setting to reflect this change.

    
4. Update your JavaScript dependencies

    Your project's package.json file looks something like this (Yours maybe different, but only `arches` and packages supporting project customizations will be listed in the dependencies):

    ```    
    {
        "name": "myproject",
        "dependencies": {
            "arches": "archesproject/arches#stable/5.1.4",
        }
    }
    ```
    Change the arches version number from to `#stable/6.1.0`\
    Then cd to your project's package.json file directory and run: `yarn install`

    **If your package.json does not have arches listed as a dependency**, follow the instructions of [step 1 here](https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/master/releases/5.1.0.md#upgrading-an-arches-project) to update your package.json file. Be sure to use #stable/6.1.0 as the version number for arches when you update your package.json file.
    
    Once your package.json file is updated, run:

    ```yarn install```


5. Optionally add the following settings to your project:
   

6. If you are running Arches on Apache, be sure to run:

    ```
    python manage.py collectstatic
    ```
    and restart your server.
    ```
    sudo service apache2 reload
    ```
    
7. Finally, If you are running Celery, you should also restart your Celery worker(s). The process for doing this depends on how Celery is being run.
