Arches 6.2.6 release notes
------------------------
### Bug Fixes and Enhancements

- Fixes is required constraint of resource instance and file-list nodes #10077
- Fixes undefined graph error in resource instance widget #10152
- Adds missing file renderers to project template #10171
- Fixes multiple EDTF nodes in single card used in advanced search returning too many records #10202
- Fixes error when handling multiple subcard levels in search export #10214
- Fixes edtf advanced search error message #10309
- Disallows selection of concepts outside of a collection in concept widget #10308
- Sorts resources in resource instance dropdown #10305
- Upgrades Django from 3.2.21 to 3.2.23
- Removes broken double click handler in search timewheel #10324
- Restricts access to system settings endpoint #10319
- Rate limits requests to authentication endpoints #10323

### Dependency changes:
```
Python:
    Upgraded:
        Django 3.2.21 > 3.2.23
    Added:
        django-ratelimit 4.1.0
```

### Upgrading Arches
1. You must be upgraded to at least version 6.2.0 before proceeding.

2. Upgrade to Arches 6.2.6

    If using a virtual environment, be sure to activate it:

        pip install --upgrade arches==6.2.6

3. Update your Javascript dependencies

    Navigate to the directory with your project's package.json file. This is located in the same directory as your project's settings.py file.
    Ensure your arches dependency points to either `#archesproject/arches#dev/6.2.x` or `#archesproject/arches#stable/6.2.6`.\
    For example:

        "dependencies": {
            "arches": "archesproject/arches#dev/6.2.x"
        }
    
    If upgrading from version <= 6.2.3 run:

        yarn install

4. If you are running Arches on Apache, be sure to run:

    ```
    python manage.py collectstatic
    ```
    and restart your server.
    ```
    sudo service apache2 reload
    ```

5. If you are running Celery, you should also restart your Celery worker(s). The process for doing this depends on how Celery is being run.

6. **Important**: This version of Arches introduces rate limiting on authentication endpoints to help protect your system. In order to fully take advantage of this feature, you must have  your default cache configured using Memcached or Redis. See the Django docs more information on [cache configuration](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/cache/#setting-up-the-cache).
