Arches 7.4.4 release notes
------------------------

### Bug Fixes and Enhancements

- Fixes bug in display of map coordinate editor
- Fix duplicate concepts from appearing in concept select dropdown #10494
- Fix error when adding new resource relations #10383
- Fix text entry after switching language in rich-text widget #10483
- Surface card help panel in main file widget area #10477
- z-index issue: When Adding Geometry, The Edit toolbar is still visible when opening the Help Option #10432
- Handle empty node values in map report #10473
- Observe nodegroup permissions in tile excel export #10441

### Dependency changes:
```
Python:
    Upgraded:
        Django 3.2.23 -> 3.2.24
    Added:
        None
```

### Upgrading Arches

1. Upgrade to version 7.4.0 before proceeding. If upgrading from an earlier version, refer to the upgrade process in the [Version 7.4.0 release notes](https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/dev/7.4.x/releases/7.4.0.md)

2. Upgrade to Arches 7.4.4
    ```
    pip install --upgrade arches==7.4.4
    ```

3. Update the JavaScript dependencies and devDependencies:
    In the project's `package.json` file change arches from `stable/7.4.3` to `stable/7.4.4`:
    ```    
        "dependencies": {
            "arches": "archesproject/arches#stable/7.4.4",
        },
        "devDependencies": {
            "arches-dev-dependencies": "archesproject/arches-dev-dependencies#stable/7.4.4"
        }
    ```
    If upgrading from 7.4.0 (if upgrading from 7.4.1 - 7.4.3 you can skip this) - in your terminal navigate to the directory with your project's package.json file. Then run:

        yarn install


4. Start your application server in a separate terminal if it's not already running. Your webpack build will not complete without your application server running.

5. In a different terminal navigate to the directory with your project's package.json file, run `yarn start` or `yarn build_development`. This will generate your `media/build` directory.
   - If running your project in development:
     -  `yarn start` will build the frontend of the application and then start a webpack development server
      - `yarn build_development` will build a development bundle for the frontend assests of the application -- this should complete in less than 2 minutes
    - If running your project in production:
      - `yarn build_production` This builds a production bundle. **takes up to 2hrs depending on resources**
      - Alternatively you can `cd ..` up a directory and run `python manage.py build_production`. This will create a production bundle of frontend assessts and also call `collectstatic`.
  

6. If you are running Arches on Apache, be sure to run:

    ```
    collectstatic
    ```
    and restart your server:
    ```
    sudo service apache2 reload
    ```

7. **Important**: As of version 7.4.3, Arches supports rate limiting on authentication endpoints to help protect your system. In order to fully take advantage of this feature, you must have  your default cache configured using Memcached or Redis. See the Django docs more information on [cache configuration](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/cache/#setting-up-the-cache).
