Arches 7.6.0 Release Notes
--------------------------

### Major enhancements

### Performance Improvments

### Additional improvements and bug fixes


### Dependency changes
```
Python:
    Upgraded:

    Added:

    Removed:
        mapbox-vector-tile

JavaScript:
    Upgraded:

    Added:

```

### Breaking changes

The minimum supported version of Python is now 3.10. Python 3.11 is encouraged, as it is significantly faster.

### Upgrading Arches

1. You must be upgraded to at least version 7.5.0 before proceeding. If you are on an earlier version, please refer to the upgrade process in the [Version 7.5.0 release notes](https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/dev/7.5.x/releases/7.5.0.md)

2. Be sure to backup your database before proceeding.

3. Upgrade to Arches 7.6.0
    ```
    pip install --upgrade arches==7.6.0
    ```

4. Uninstall removed dependencies:
    ```
    pip uninstall mapbox-vector-tile
    ```

### Upgrading an Arches project


1. If you have made customizations to files in your webpack directory, backup that directory as those files will be overwritten in the following steps. Read [this](https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/dev/7.5.x/arches/webpack/README.md) for more information.

2. Update your project's JavaScript dependencies:

    1.  In the project's `package.json` file from `stable/7.5.0` to `stable/7.6.0`:
        ```    
        {
            "dependencies": {
                "arches": "archesproject/arches#stable/7.6.0",
            },
            "devDependencies": {
                "arches-dev-dependencies": "archesproject/arches-dev-dependencies#stable/7.6.0"
            }
        }
        ```

    2. Remove your `media/node_modules` directory and `yarn.lock` file

    3. In your terminal navigate to the directory with your project's package.json file. Then run:

        yarn install

        
3. Start your application server in a separate terminal if it's not already running.

4.  In the same terminal window where you ran `yarn` ( on the same level as `package.json` ), run `yarn start` or `yarn build_development`. This will generate your `media/build` directory.
    - If running your project in development:
     -  `yarn start` will build the frontend of the application and then start a webpack development server
      - `yarn build_development` will build a development bundle for the frontend assests of the application -- this should complete in less than 2 minutes
    - If running your project in production:
      - `yarn build_production` This builds a production bundle. **takes up to 2hrs depending on resources**
      - Alternatively you can `cd ..` up a directory and run `python manage.py build_production`. This will create a production bundle of frontend assessts and also call `collectstatic`.

5.  If you are running Arches on Apache, be sure to run:

    ```
    collectstatic
    ```
    and restart your server
    ```
    sudo service apache2 reload
    ```

